things are unraveling very fast and I'm
going to explain the financial
circumstances behind all of this you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you obviously big news going on
right now I got a tiptoe around it so
that I can actually keep it monetized
what we need to know here is not the
daily events that by the time you watch
this video are probably already
irrelevant what we're talking about here
is the impact on oil the markets energy
what's happening right here down to the
details that you must know to you know
make a judgment call around this the oil
price at this time at the time of this
recording while the markets are closed
they are still in the case of WTI at
about $85 you got Brent at about
$90 what was explained here prior to the
situation that happened was that look
this is getting a little testy and the
prices escalated as you see there
there's green because of turbulence
because of what they thought Could
Happen of course it did happen and now
it could go back the other way as a
result of this we could see dramatically
higher prices what is going to happen in
the straight of Hormuz that's another
question that could in in fact create
another increase the market is closed as
of this recording by the time you're
watching this video it should still be
closed but within hours it will be over
open let's see what happens in that
regard of course oil being very very
sensitive now at the same time we're
seeing the United States producing so
much oil in fact it could be
self-sufficient if it wanted to but what
does it do of course it sells it off so
that you got to understand it's not like
Hey we're self-sufficient it doesn't
work like that because so much of it
actually gets sold off where it comes
from well then of course you got to look
at and understand hey this stuff has to
come through these very sensitive areas
and now there's yet another one the red
C was a problem straight of for moves
becoming a problem add it to the list
you've got issues going on in different
areas even the Panama Canal we can have
things traveling three flowing Goods
suddenly becoming more restrictive that
is always going to mean higher prices
for you as an investor you might be able
to take advantage of that but at the
same time you got to watch this as it
relates to inflation we've already been
dealing with a lot of inflation let's
see what happens we've got election 2024
at the same time as all of this so it
puts additional pressure um because of
this you know situation here we have
looking at um this is Goldman Sachs
information geopolitical impediments to
opec's Ability or desire to deploy spare
capacity pose a upside price risk okay
and they were just talking about the
straight of hormones in there in the
first one just looking at the different
events potential impact of it and yeah
we could have an additional $15 a barrel
should the straight of form was close
down for that period I don't know if
that's going to be the case um they said
we're done we're done our actions we we
got them back uh we're not going to do
anymore but of course there will be a
retaliation and as a result of that of
course they're going to want to go back
the other way again and back and forth
and back and forth so we'll see where
that ends up but just understand that
there's many different things that could
um unravel at this point and these are a
few issues just a few all right you've
got this the cost of ensuring against
oil price spikes has increased on Rising
geopolitical tensions and so there's a
lot of these things um to you the
individual of course doesn't NE neily
matter you're not going to be buying
options on um you know the risk here uh
but what does it tell us that Traders
believe that there could be much higher
prices coming assuming that we get more
and more I think at least a bump up uh
if this continues you know there's
there's worry there's concern and even
if you know nothing necessarily happens
right now what do we do have we have
this wait and see yeah prices could be
bumped up
this is um a couple charts in fact I'll
zoom in just to show you quick you can
see the rig count in the United States
again edging down so if you look at the
chart on the right hand side us oil rig
count has continued to decline from that
Peak that we had in 2023 the production
is up there's no question about that but
total rig count down we need more if we
expect to have lower prices longer term
right and then we have this just looking
at crude oil production growth Edge down
again this week and peran uh being one
that is significant that's the dark blue
right there you could see definitely
where a lot of that oil is coming from
so if the United States wants to offset
what's going on uh you know Halfway
Around the World well then it needs that
production it needs more more growth and
also delivering that to you know
actually within domestic consumption
that's not all happening that's for sure
they're selling that off so of course
there's a worry here the price rise of
oil is very clear and obvious uh but
we'll see what happens by the time the
Market opens there's a lot going on uh
many many moving parts of course and so
I asked the question you know what's
next what's happening like what's behind
all of this um we know that and I show
you this and I talked about this in my
first book who's leading the race to
mine the deep sea and so you got bricks
Nations overwhelmingly that are mining
the deep sea they're looking for all
kinds of things what does this tell us
though like why would they be going into
the deep deep sea to find stuff if it
was just readily available anywhere
anywhere else right you wouldn't do that
just like you wouldn't do
fracking just like you wouldn't go into
the middle of the Gulf of Mexico to try
and get oil if you could
simply knock on the floor and have that
oil flow
in you know that it is becoming more
difficult or at the very least the easy
oil has been
found and we know that they have to come
up with new technologies like they did
with fracking um to be able to pull that
out efficiently because it it's not just
can we get it out of the ground it's at
what price at what price and so some
companies might be profitable at $40 a
barrel some companies might be
profitable only at $80 a barrel in fact
a lot of the fracking a lot of shale is
actually only profitable at like $80 a
barrel
um some companies have more of an
advantage accidental petroleum
reportedly uh is better off in that case
Okay so watch what happens with oil
there are oil companies there are oil
ETFs and what I would say is the ETFs
shortterm only shortterm only um that is
extremely important because you're like
hey I'm holding this oil I'm trying to
invest in oil but you're actually
investing in a derivative so you're not
really investing in oil so be mindful of
that if you're going to go into
something it's in it's out and do that
um you know when you think the trade is
done or the the you know the bulk of
that trade is done just call it quit
take your profit and move on out that's
what I would say about this at the same
time other Commodities other things
could be attractive as well because
there's tension right so you could see
that happening if they do believe though
that we're going to head into you know
some major deflation and all that then
it could be a different story but if
it's just action between two sides that
of course could uh
create a more pronounced um effect on
the price of oil could go go go much
higher and when it comes to resources in
general I just want to make this clear
once again the AI revolution has a
problem energy so we have this growth in
AI would require an expansion of gas
generation capacity on one hand AI
promises to help Advance the transition
on the other it's clearly hindering the
progress of that transition by posing an
energy demand question that only
hydrocarbons can answer all right and so
you know they want nuclear absolutely a
lot of energy produced by nuclear but it
cannot be done if you want it today it
takes 5 years it takes 10 years to build
these facilities in the meantime natural
gas could be the one that provides a lot
of that so it could mean higher prices
of course if the supply and the demand
fundamentals are off so that's what's
going on with energy overall keep an eye
on that there are companies that are
going to do very well at least for a
period of time maybe we could say yeah
they're all going to be nuclear later
like who knows but in this Gap in the
meantime there's some interesting uh
developments that are going on okay so
I'm trying to uh tiptoe as you can see
but I hope you do appreciate this video
hopefully what's going on at this time
will calm down it'll cool down it does
not escalate uh but at least for the
time being this is a huge concern uh for
everybody um you know we I I don't see a
reason why this would benefit you know
anybody but um here we are if if you
want to know the financial education
that you just can't get anywhere for
free it's totally available to you I I
made this for you literally I created
this thing created this whole website
set up the website took hours and hours
and hours and hours to figure all this
stuff out and then I gave it away for
free it's called Compass there's no
email there's no pay wall there's not
even a link on there to you know hey go
watch my YouTube videos none of that no
thumbs up no nothing why did I do that I
did that for you Compass the money
gps.com
Compass or you just go to the money
gps.com you click on that link for
Compass it's like a you know 20 minutes
worth of these little tiny uh video
clips that explain the financial system
how it works super simple stuff and you
could share that with other people who
you know they want some Financial
education I don't talk about the Federal
Reserve I don't talk about the ins and
outs totally for free check it out all
right I want to see you back here
tomorrow we got some good stuff planned
we're talking about debt we're talking
about what's happening with the average
person I'll see you then take care